To add the tag libraries to our code,
we first need to add that dependency into our POM.
So I'm going to open up our pom.xml file, and I'm going to go down to the
bottom of our dependencies between spring‑boot‑starter‑mail and
spring‑boot‑starter‑test. We honestly can place it anywhere in here as long as
it's in the dependency's tag so that we get that added to our class path
because that's not going to compete with anything else.
And again,
we're not using a version here because it's using dependency
management to pull down the appropriate version based off of the
Spring Boot version that we are using.
So it's just a groupId of org.springframework.security and
artifactId of spring‑security‑taglibs.
We'll save this, and then we can open up our src, main, webapp, index.jsp.
And inside of here, we want to add a tag library at the top.
So we're going to do a new tag library, %@, and we'll do taglib. And for the
prefix, we'll do sec for security, and for the uri, we'll say
http://www.springframework.org/security/tags and hit Enter on that.
And just so you know,
if it's been a little while since you've used tag libraries
or you're not that familiar with them,
this URL doesn't actually go out and download them.
That's just the key in which it looks for that resource
inside of the jar that contains it.
So it's just the unique identifier for that jar for those
resources, so it's going to pull that back.
Now we can go down to our body here, and inside of here in our main we have
this Welcome to the Conference App! Give ourselves a little space underneath
that. We're going to enter in a few elements here.
The first thing that we're going to do is look to
see if they are not authorized.
So we're going to say security:authorize, and we'll say
access. And we're going to, inside of here,
put an expression and say !isAuthenticated.
So we're just saying if they're authenticated at all, skip this.
But if they're not authenticated,
let's go ahead and display this tag inside of here.
And we'll just put a simple anchor tag in here,
so we'll say a href, and we want to give that the value of login. And inside
of here, just give it the text of Login and save that.
So if they're not authenticated, let's give them a link to hit the Login page.
And then if they are logged in,
let's just do sec:authorize again, and we'll say access isAuthenticated.
And again, that's one of those expressions that we have available for us to use.
And we'll say Welcome Back. And we can grab the current logged in user
by saying sec:authentication, and we use the property, and we'll just
grab name here, and we can close that off.
In fact,
we're not going to do anything inside of that element, so we'll just use
the shorthand of closing that element off inside of itself and say this.
Now when we run the application and log them in,
it'll determine whether they are logged in or not and
display this text versus one over the other.
So let's fire up our server and see what it does now. And you can see as this
pulls up, we automatically have our Login link on here.
And if you'll remember, that's because we're currently not authenticated.
If I click that Login link, it'll redirect us to that Login page.
I can put in our username and password and log in,
and it will go back to that page and tell us, Welcome Back,
bryan.
Now we have stored my username as lowercase, so you could do
something to make that prettier. or you could use the nickname
that we stored in the database.
That was the reason why way back a couple of modules we added
that nickname field, so you could go ahead and have that
nickname displayed if you wanted to.
That's available as that UserDetails object that we customized that returned
from our back‑end services to our UI. So pretty easy to add that. We have the
current authenticated user and can display information toggled based off of
whether they're authenticated or not.
We could also display information based off if they have a specific role.
It's just another expression that we use inside of the app. But
really nice and pretty straightforward to do.
Let's look at how we do the same thing though associated with methods and injecting the current logged in user into a method call.